We've style by classes, we've styled
by tags, let's go style by ID.
Do you remember how I told
you don't use IDs very often
this is part of the reason
why I don't want you to.
Okay, so let's say I have
an h1 here of site brand, and
I gave it a bunch of classes, right?
Nav-head nav-main other-useful-class and
I have two selectors here site-brand, and
this just incredibly specific selector,
h1, nav-head, nav-main other-useful-class.
Let's put another nav-head in there for
fun it's infinite, right?
So many classes,
which of these two is more specific?
>> ID
>> The ID, right?
So if classes are in the 10 places
then IDs are in the 100 place, right?
So this is red so this is why I don't
want you to use IDs very much it's
like they're sledgehammer they
just blowing all the classes and
end up overriding a lot of things.
And imagine later if you're
trying to cascade on top of that,
you end up in these wild situations where
you have each one side-brand, right?
Color blue.
So yeah that works right, but
then what you have to be on top of that?
Well then you can be like,
Sorry my spacing here is a little off.
So I mean all of these things, right?
Apply but if you're looking at someone's
style sheet, which of these applies?
It's hard to tell, right?
At a glance you kind of go through and
do the math.
No ain't nobody wanna do some math, right?
We just wanna know what applies.
And if you look at this in the inspector
it's gonna be a hot mess to look at.
So look at all these crossed out colors
here, they're like nope this one.
Yeah, it's ridiculous.
And by the way if your CSS
selectors looked like this,
I don't know quit your job I would be so
upset.
Furthermore, the problem typically
is not that they're lined out this.
Even when they're lined out
like this it's hard to tell.
Typically they're in six different files
and you don't know where they are, right?
And then you have to hunt through
multiple files looking for
this one selector that's clobbering
all of URLs so frustrating.
I'm saying this hopefully to save
you select future hell, right?
Cuz it's not fun.
Okay.
So site-brand 2, what color is site brand?
This important if IDs are in the 100
place important is in the 1000s place.
Never use important if
you're using important,
you're doing something absolutely wrong.
The person that invented important
regrets it [LAUGH] The reason why they
invented important is cuz they thought
that it would be useful for compliance.
So, some people have to adhere to certain
government accessibility, compliance,
things like that and
they were worried that the government
would sue people if they had a too small.
So they had to have this important so
that could never be overridden,
ended up not being really that big of
a deal because the government ruled on
in an accessibility case.
That if a user makes it smaller it's not
in compliance the user chose that but
they were worried about that when
they drafted the standard or
it's somewhat similar to that,
that was my understanding.
So once you start getting into weird stuff
like this, then you will start seeing,
Important important was
it like this I don't
know there some world
things they can do or,
that what it is, right?
Now that this are both important it
cast down to some selective, right?
Which if you see something that's
important to not being implied,
you are in a special kind of hell, right?
Because there's nothing above important
well actually there is something [LAUGH]
above important and that's inline style.
No I don't think that even inline style
I think important is the most one.
Now I'm getting into the edge
of my knowledge color pink.
Yeah, so that's what this is important
will even blow up blow away inline styles.
So if I get rid of both
of these importance,
Inline styles so I put my style
here actually does out cascade IDs.
But imagine that you're trying to write
your CSS, you use a ID selector and
it's not even applying then,
it's confusing, right?
So, I'm trying to show you all of this
confusion up front so that you're like I
don't wanna do anything with that
I'm just gonna use classes, right?
If that's what you're feeling right now,
I have succeeded, I am a great teacher,
I pat myself on the back and
you're gonna go forth well
equipped to be great developers.
This took me years of being an idiot to
figure out that's why I'm trying to show
you how to not be an idiot,
cuz nobody taught me this way, right?
I just read in the book I was like IDs
selectors that just does everything I
wanna do and I just did it, right?
So, don't be like Brian well
don't be like past Brian maybe
enough current Brian either I
don't know that's up to you but
definitely don't be past
Brian nobody likes that guy.
Okay, any questions about the cascade?
I've more or less showing you
the entire cascade hierarchy, yeah.
>> Is there a way to bring in
something to prioritize the CSS styles
you made like a JavaScript
that's do this first?
>> That's a great question.
So, if you're not from
this Twitter Bootstrap or
there's a myriad of other
of CSS frameworks, right?
Or CSS toolkit of if someone went and
made a bunch of really useful
pre-made styles for you.
So let's let's just look
at Twitter Bootstrap.
Look at components here, right?
So for these really nice looking buttons,
right?
This is all just CSS, right?
Or there's large button and small
button and all these kinds of things,
a good question is if I
bring all these toolkits and
sometimes I still have
to write CSS on top.
I almost always have to write
some CSS on top of that and
it can get really frustrating trying
to balance what Twitter's including for
this is made by Twitter.
So what Bootstrap is including for
me, versus what I'm trying to write.
So the first thing is always
load your CSS last, right?
Cuz if you remember all of your
CSS the last one wins if they have
equal specificity, so that'll help.
Beyond that you just have to end up being
more specific than Bootstrap, right?
So if you have a selector that's like,
Nav let's say one of theirs is like
button, Or let's do it this way.
Button class = btn btn large or
something like that.
Right, so
I make this button the built in stylesheet
to bootstrap will have .btn .btn large.
And if you're trying to override something
even more than that you'll have to
have something with at least two classes,
right?
>> Okay.
>> Cuz you have to out cascade it,
which is not fun, right?
It's generally why I tell you avoid
cascading things because then it gets
really messy.
Unfortunately in this case you just
kinda have to get in there and
get messy with it.
So your CSS selector will
end up looking like .btn.
What I'll probably advise you to
do is add some class of your own,
and just say my btn, right?
And then you'll do, Your stuff here,
by the side you do comments /* */,
it's different in CSS than it is in HTML.
As long as this comes after, you'll
out cascade it, right, cuz it's last.
That's generally what I advise you to do.
If you have to out cascaded again
you'll either have to add something
like that be large.
In general I'll just
repeat my class again.
Just so this ends up being more heavy.
And if you're doing beyond three you
need to ask yourself some questions
of can I rearchitect this so
I don't have to do so much cascading?
Does that answer your question?
>> Yeah, so it would have to be
in the same style sheet then.
>> It does not matter which
style sheet it comes from,
cuz they're all equally applied.
So, I would include and
I'll show you how to include
stylesheets here in a little bit.
But I will include bootstrap first and
then underneath that I'll
include my styles, right?
>> Like when you're listening in the head?
>> Exactly.
>> That's where it comes
last okay I got it.
>> Yeah, sorry I should have been
more specific it's a terrible joke.
I am a dad now I get to make dad jokes.
So legally I can make dad jokes.
I hate that joke we probably
should cut that it's
terrible [LAUGH] I'm kidding
you can leave it in there.
Cool, other questions?
Okay, avoid the cascade it's a tool to
be used sparingly, that's the point.